Creating the player and input in this video will cover taking keyboard input using rigid body add force
for motion and using pro grids to position the walls.
Here's the task breakdown.
We'll add the crazy ball C-sharp script.
We'll use pro grids to position the wall elements and we'll add those walls.
This screenshot represents our end target.
For the project, we'll open up section six, Video two and the scene crazy ball to.
All right, let's open up unity here and we're going to go into Crazy Ball two if we play this scene
here.
We'll see that I'm able to take keyboard input.
And bounce properly off the walls.
So let's see how that set up.
First of all, we've got a crazy ball here.
You know, the crazy ball.
It's just a sphere with a sphere collider, a rigid body with default settings, and then a custom crazy
ball script.
Let's see how that works in the crazy ball script.
In the update, we capture the keyboard input.
We use Unity's input class, which automatically maps to the arrow keys on the keyboard and any gamepads
that you have hooked up.
I'm just using the keyboard.
Then I cache the last input and every update I use rigid body add force and I multiply the last input
times the speed.
This way I can have more dramatic or less dramatic keyboard input depending on that speed value.
Let's see how it works.
When I run the scene.
Now use the keyboard input here.
I'm moving my character through the world.
If I change this to a value of 100 for speed, for example, I'll get much more maximum speed as well
as acceleration.
This is a little bit too much power.
Let's try a low value like five.
Here.
The ball feels like it has a lot of weight to it and I really have to hold the keys in any direction
for a long period of time to correct its movement.
You can experiment with the values you like.
I like 20.
I think it's a good mixture of feeling like I have enough control, but still respecting that there's
some mass and movement going on.
Great.
So now let's talk about this environment.
We've got a series of walls here set up.
Each wall piece is about this big and already has a mesh collider on it.
So all we have to do is position these in the world where we want.
Let's decide how we want to do that.
So first I'll get rid of the ones that we've got.
And I'll drag out a wall piece.
There you go.
Now, I could freely move these around.
You can see that I'm able to move them with a lot of accuracy.
But it's possible that I would set them up with a little gaps between them or possible overlaps.
So we're going to use a really nice tool that I've already imported called pro grids.
When I turn pro grids on, it will automatically snap to one unit and with the on toggle, everything
that I move will automatically be snapped.
So when I start to move these around the world, you can see they snap in whole units.
Then I'll use control dx or command dx on the Mac to duplicate and move them out.
This way.
I know if I want a gap, it will be a whole unit.
Otherwise, I know I'm snapping right to the edge of the object.
So I can duplicate and add a whole line of those.
Then I can duplicate and also use rotation, of course, to position these exactly where I want them.
And you continue to make your level design like that.
And because they have automatically mesh gliders built onto them, you can see that we get the functionality
we want, which is that my character collides and interacts with them.
That's it.
We've got the movement input and the walls.
In the next video, we'll work on creating the obstacles we'll cover, creating movable and immovable
objects, and adding spinning coins which are collectible by the player.